doc/helper-docs/git-docs/2.ADD_CJSON_OSL_JSON_AS_GIT_SUBMODULE.md, before:

# 1. Add `cJSON`

This is more like a straight forward process. Because we are adding a specific `v1.7.18-for-ppcg` branch.

## 1.1. Run the following `git submodule add` command

```sh
git submodule add -b v1.7.18-for-ppcg --name cjson https://github.com/pal-stdr/cJSON-forked.git cjson
```

- After running the above command, check `.gitmodules`. You should be seeing something following

```sh
[submodule "cjson"]
	path = cjson
	url = https://github.com/pal-stdr/cJSON-forked.git
	branch = v1.7.18-for-ppcg
```

- You can also do the `git status` command to see how it is included

```sh
git status

# Returns
On branch branch_name
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/how-to-setup-ppcg'.

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        modified:   .gitmodules
        new file:   cJSON
```

## 1.2. Then in the parent repo, `commit` and `push` the changes

```sh
git stage cjson/

git commit -m "Add 'cjson' submodule for branch 'v1.7.18-for-ppcg'"
```





# 2. Add `Nlohmann json`

This is a bit tricky process. Because we are adding a specific `v3.11.3` tag.

## 2.1. Run the following `git submodule add` command

```sh
git submodule add --name json https://github.com/nlohmann/json.git json

# returns
Cloning into '/path/to/parent-repo/json'...
remote: Enumerating objects: 38209, done.
remote: Counting objects: 100% (91/91), done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (46/46), done.
remote: Total 38209 (delta 43), reused 69 (delta 33), pack-reused 38118
Receiving objects: 100% (38209/38209), 185.18 MiB | 8.21 MiB/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (23463/23463), done.
```

- After running the above command, check `.gitmodules`. You should be seeing something following

```sh
[submodule "json"]
	path = json
	url = https://github.com/nlohmann/json.git
```

- You can also do the `git status` command to see how it is included

```sh
git status

# Returns
On branch branch_name
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/how-to-setup-ppcg'.

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        modified:   .gitmodules
        new file:   json
```

## 2.2. Go to the submodule dir. And `git fetch` all git `tags` for json submodule

```sh
cd json/

git fetch --tags
```

## 2.3. `git checkout` your desired version/`tag`

```sh
git checkout tags/v3.11.3

# Returns
Note: switching to 'tags/v3.11.3'.

You are in 'detached HEAD' state....
....
HEAD is now at 9cca280a JSON for Modern C++ 3.11.3 (#4222)
```

## 2.4. Go back to the parent repo

```sh
cd ..
```

## 2.5. git `stage` (i.e. add) the `json/` submodule

```sh
git stage json/
git status

# Returns
On branch how-to-setup-ppcg
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/how-to-setup-ppcg'.

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        modified:   .gitmodules
        new file:   json
```

## 2.6. Finally in the parent repo, `commit` and `push` the changes

```sh
git commit -m "Add 'json' submodule for checked out tag/version v3.11.3"

# Returns
2 files changed, 4 insertions(+)
create mode 160000 json
```


# 3. Add `openscop`

Openscop lib also known by the name `osl`. We will be using `osl` name.

## 3.1. Run the following `git submodule add` command

```sh
git submodule add --name osl https://github.com/periscop/openscop.git osl
```

- After running the above command, check `.gitmodules`. You should be seeing something following

```sh
[submodule "osl"]
	path = osl
	url = https://github.com/periscop/openscop.git
```


## 3.3. Go to the submodule dir. And `git fetch` all git `tags` for json submodule

```sh
cd osl/

git fetch --tags
```

## 3.3. `git checkout` your desired version/`tag`

```sh
git checkout tags/0.9.7
```

## 3.4. Go back to the parent repo

```sh
cd ..
```

## 3.5. git `stage` (i.e. add) the `json/` submodule

```sh
git stage osl/
git status

# Returns
On branch how-to-setup-ppcg
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/how-to-setup-ppcg'.

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        modified:   .gitmodules
        new file:   osl
```

## 3.6. Finally in the parent repo, `commit` and `push` the changes

```sh
git commit -m "Add 'osl' submodule for checked out tag/version 0.9.7"

# Returns
2 files changed, 4 insertions(+)
create mode 160000 osl
```

Commit message:

cjson & osl add as git submodule

doc/helper-docs/git-docs/2.ADD_CJSON_OSL_JSON_AS_GIT_SUBMODULE.md, after:

# 1. Add `cJSON`

This is more like a straight forward process. Because we are adding a specific `v1.7.18-for-ppcg` branch.

## 1.1. Run the following `git submodule add` command

```sh
git submodule add -b v1.7.18-for-ppcg --name cjson https://github.com/pal-stdr/cJSON-forked.git cjson
```

- After running the above command, check `.gitmodules`. You should be seeing something following

```sh
[submodule "cjson"]
	path = cjson
	url = https://github.com/pal-stdr/cJSON-forked.git
	branch = v1.7.18-for-ppcg
```

- You can also do the `git status` command to see how it is included. **This is already staged. You donot need to stage it again.**

```sh
git status

# Returns
On branch branch_name
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/how-to-setup-ppcg'.

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        modified:   .gitmodules
        new file:   cJSON
```

## 1.2. Then in the parent repo, `commit` and `push` the changes

```sh
git commit -m "Add 'cjson' submodule for branch 'v1.7.18-for-ppcg'"
```





# 2. Add `Nlohmann json`

This is a bit tricky process. Because we are adding a specific `v3.11.3` tag.

## 2.1. Run the following `git submodule add` command

```sh
git submodule add --name json https://github.com/nlohmann/json.git json

# returns
Cloning into '/path/to/parent-repo/json'...
remote: Enumerating objects: 38209, done.
remote: Counting objects: 100% (91/91), done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (46/46), done.
remote: Total 38209 (delta 43), reused 69 (delta 33), pack-reused 38118
Receiving objects: 100% (38209/38209), 185.18 MiB | 8.21 MiB/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (23463/23463), done.
```

- After running the above command, check `.gitmodules`. You should be seeing something following

```sh
[submodule "json"]
	path = json
	url = https://github.com/nlohmann/json.git
```

- You can also do the `git status` command to see how it is included

```sh
git status

# Returns
On branch branch_name
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/how-to-setup-ppcg'.

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        modified:   .gitmodules
        new file:   json
```

## 2.2. Go to the submodule dir. And `git fetch` all git `tags` for json submodule

```sh
cd json/

git fetch --tags
```

## 2.3. `git checkout` your desired version/`tag`

```sh
git checkout tags/v3.11.3

# Returns
Note: switching to 'tags/v3.11.3'.

You are in 'detached HEAD' state....
....
HEAD is now at 9cca280a JSON for Modern C++ 3.11.3 (#4222)
```

## 2.4. Go back to the parent repo

```sh
cd ..
```

## 2.5. git `stage` (i.e. add) the `json/` submodule

```sh
git stage json/
git status

# Returns
On branch how-to-setup-ppcg
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/how-to-setup-ppcg'.

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        modified:   .gitmodules
        new file:   json
```

## 2.6. Finally in the parent repo, `commit` and `push` the changes

```sh
git commit -m "Add 'json' submodule for checked out tag/version v3.11.3"

# Returns
2 files changed, 4 insertions(+)
create mode 160000 json
```


# 3. Add `openscop`

Openscop lib also known by the name `osl`. We will be using `osl` name.

## 3.1. Run the following `git submodule add` command

```sh
git submodule add --name osl https://github.com/periscop/openscop.git osl
```

- After running the above command, check `.gitmodules`. You should be seeing something following

```sh
[submodule "osl"]
	path = osl
	url = https://github.com/periscop/openscop.git
```


## 3.3. Go to the submodule dir. And `git fetch` all git `tags` for json submodule

```sh
cd osl/

git fetch --tags
```

## 3.3. `git checkout` your desired version/`tag`

```sh
git checkout tags/0.9.7
```

## 3.4. Go back to the parent repo

```sh
cd ..
```

## 3.5. git `stage` (i.e. add) the `json/` submodule

```sh
git stage osl/
git status

# Returns
On branch how-to-setup-ppcg
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/how-to-setup-ppcg'.

Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        modified:   .gitmodules
        new file:   osl
```

## 3.6. Finally in the parent repo, `commit` and `push` the changes

```sh
git commit -m "Add 'osl' submodule for checked out tag/version 0.9.7"

# Returns
2 files changed, 4 insertions(+)
create mode 160000 osl
```
